The Adventure Zone
Dungeon Master & NPCs: Griffin McElroy
Magnus Burnsides: Travis McElroy 
Merle Highchurch: Clint McElroy
Taako Taaco: Justin McElroy


Episode 35 - Crystal Kingdom - Chapter Seven
(part of TAZscripts on Tumblr) 


Griffin: Previously, on the Adventure Zone...


Director: It's time for the Regulators to roll out. We're sending you in to detain and extract Lucas for his abuse of confidential information. Standard protocol applies.


Griffin: You pull out from inside an old compact mirror. Inside is actually just a circular disk of emerald.


Travis: Okay, so he's stealing technological ideas from our world.


Noelle: Guys, he's crystallizin’!


Travis: I turn around and chop it off! [Noelle: GUYS!] I chop it off!


Clint: Quit chopping me off!


Travis: I’m gonna chop it off!


Clint: You're choppin’ off my damn arm! Seriously!


Justin: If we need a new arm, the good news is, he's got lots.


Travis: Yeah.


Justin: So if we could figure out a way to make that work? That would be rad.


Clint: Yeah. I'm unconscious, thanks.


Justin: That's not what unconscious people say, but let's keep moving.


Announcer: I hope Merle's proficient in unarmed combat! ...I'm sorry, I'm better than that, and you should expect more from me. It's the Adventure Zone!


[THEME MUSIC: "Déjà Vu" by Mort Garson (full song on YouTube)]
{ 1:29 }


Griffin: We come to you live from— a breaking news story— a tragedy, a tragedy that has—


[Over this, Justin and Travis make beeping "breaking news" sound effects.]


Griffin: Oh my God. Well, don't both do it. When they do breaking news at TV stations, they don't have two different beep-a-deeps.


Travis: But they do have someone live do it, like on Carmen Sandiego, when Rockapella would do the breaking news.


Griffin: Yeah, but if Rockapella did it, they'd be fucking harmonizing and stuff. Anyway, breaking news story: Dad has just touched Justin's dice.


Justin: He touched my dice, he got it— whatever it is, he got it all over them. [Justin sounds a little low and raspy from a cold.]


Clint: Guuhh. Get over it, dork!


Travis: That's not— you're not supposed to touch—


Clint: I'm a rebel, man! I got attitude! I got serious attitude!


Griffin: It sounds like Justin has implied that there's some sort of residue that Dad has left on the dice.


Travis: Sticky Coke Zero fingers...


Justin: Not bad, it's just like, whatever he does—


Clint: Critical misses, you mean?


Justin: Just, his critical stink is all over it right now. And I'm worried that like—


Travis: Critical Stink is a great D&D punk band name.


Justin: [English punk voice] Oi, we're Critical Stink, let's roll! [noises imitating punk music]


Griffin: Before we get into the—


Travis: [snickering] Let's roll!


[Clint laughing]


Justin: Thank you, Travis. Somebody appreciated it.


[raspberry, probably from Clint]


Travis: I liked it.


Griffin: Before we get into the excitement and action and resolution and shit, I feel like we need to do some corrections and amendments here at the top.


Justin: Okay… 


Griffin: Just— Dad does have an ax, but it's a— and I, he announced it in the first episode, and people were kind enough to remind me that Dad does have an ax— [distant thunder sound] Wow! Y'all hear that?


Justin: What's that?


Griffin: That's some fuckin' atmo! It's stormy as hell.


Travis: Oh!


Justin: Okay.


Griffin: Just know that that's not in post, it's not storming inside of Lucas's lab. Um... Dad does have a hand ax, he announced it in episode one, but it's basically a hatchet, it's like a hatchet that they would use in like— a child would get for Christmas—


Travis: Like you would use in the book... Hatchet?


Griffin: Like a Gary Paulsen hatchet.


Clint: Hence the name Li'l Choppy.


Travis: I also wanna say, the reason we didn't use the red barrels [during the tardigrade fight] is because we beat them anyways, pretty handily. I don't think we took a lot of damage. We didn't need the red barrels, and it wasn't until afterwards when all you punks got to hear Griffin say "the red barrels" that you went yeah— [crosstalk] like— hindsight, 20/20, you guys.


Griffin: Another quick one, I learned this, I didn't— there's no such thing as negative Kelvin.


Travis: But what if he's really sad?


Justin: There also isn't, I think I said a thousand degrees Kelvin. That's not a thing either.


Griffin: Anyway, I, uh... I'll uh, just one last, as long as we're piling on here, I've been saying the word "proboscis" wrong my whole fuckin' life. 


Travis: You know what we're not? A factual show. This is not about science and learning, it's about Dungeons and Dragons!


Griffin: I saw somebody trying to defend me like, 'Well in this fantasy universe, maybe it's pronounced probiscis!' No. No, friend.


Justin: You're embarrassing yourself.


Travis: Wait, it's not probiscis?


Griffin: My sweet friend, no. Proboscis, with an o.


Travis: Jesus...


Clint: Probiscis is a flower.


Travis: No...


Justin: I thought it was probiscis the whole time, is it not probiscis?


Griffin: It's proboscis.


Clint: Proboscis.


Travis: Is probiscis like a weird West Virginia thing?


Griffin: Yeah, it's like aunt [pronounced ant], aunt [pronounced ahnt].


Travis: All right. Let's play Doon-jens and Dray-guns and get on with it.


Griffin: Okay. Um, who needs a refresher, anybody? Dad— Merle's arm got chopped off.


Travis: I just listened to it!


Justin: One last correction. I'm sorry last week after we beat them that I didn't call them "fartigrades."


[All groan at the missed opportunity.]


Travis: Or nardigrades!


Griffin: A gross factual error from Justin.


Justin: Yeah, it was incorrect of me.


Travis: We got a lot of fanmail about it.


Griffin: One thing we also need to resolve: Merle, what is your dominant hand? 'Cause I think that's the one that we're gonna say got got. 'Cause I don't see why you would grab a thing with your non-dominant hand.


Travis: I actually think he said he was ambidextrous.


Clint: I did at the very beginning of the show, but along with all these other facts, I guess that was forgotten too...


Griffin: [laughing] It's been two years!


Travis: It feels like five.


Griffin: Well, if you wanna flip a coin and tell me which hand got got… 


Clint: I'll roll a die.


Justin: While Dad's rolling that die to tell you which hand got got, I should also mention that very early in the show, I also said that whenever people are around Taako, they get super horny and want to give him lots of money. I said that and everybody was like, uh huh, good good good good.


Clint: Yeah, we like that- like that’s canon-


Travis: I actually, I wrote that down.


Justin: [slower, as if taking notes] They get super horny... and want to give him lots of money.


Clint: I lost my dominant hand.


Griffin: Nice. Which is it, your right or left?


Clint: My right.


Griffin: Okay. Taako, I actually remember the super horny, giving you money thing. Like, has that not... that's just how it's—


Justin: I just have it. It's like my acrobatic skill, it just hasn't… 


Griffin: You just haven't used it. So about twenty minutes have passed since you guys got Merle into this medbay room.


Travis: Merle's dead. He bled out.


Clint: I'm dead, right?


Griffin: And— he died between episodes. It's a D&D podcast first.


Travis: But he's been recast, as a younger— this is Oliver, the new Merle… 


Griffin: No, he is alive, and through a series of medicines and salves that Lucas has applied, you're actually pretty lucid, and the pain from your grisly wound has almost completely subsided.


Travis: Hey, it was a very clean cut, thank you very much!


Griffin: I meant gris— okay, yes.


Clint: Take pride in your work, Trav.


Travis: It was surgical!


Griffin: It was surgical in nature.


Travis: I was surgical with this bitch!


Clint: By the way, while we're on this subject, thanks to all those people who tweeted and said, 'here's hoping Merle dies!' Thank you!


Travis: Well, everybody loves a shakeup, Dad, I don't think that that's personal against you, but like, you know, the interjection of an— who knows what celebrity we could get to play the next Merle!


Griffin: The possibilities are very exciting. Let me, let's do some storytelling.


Justin: Wait, wait, just to be clear—


Griffin: Oh, boy.


Justin: —Travis, you're saying that we would not replace— let Dad play a new character, [Travis: Uh-huh!] —we'd bring his old character back to life with a new actor, like Doctor Who.


Travis: Yeah.


Justin: Okay, got it, cool. Got it. Perfect.


Clint: Thanks! Thanks, bud!


Travis: You could, you could come back as like maybe a whimsical spirit, or some kind of like, talking book…


Clint: Sure, yeah.


Griffin: Or talking dog… 


Justin: Maybe more of a producer role in the back, taking a backseat, a Robin to our Howie… No?


Clint: [cracks up] … Why am I laughing?


Justin: I don't know.


Griffin: I don't know. It's very sad. Merle—


Justin: That's what you'll be doing a lot of, though. And you— a lot of, "Good one, sirs!"


Travis: And you'll be asked to leave the set because you're interrupting the filming.


Justin: "Excellent, young masters! Way to goof 'em again!"


Travis: "Do you need any lem-o-nade?"


Justin: "Thrilling plot twist!"


Griffin: Okay. Merle, you've been treated. What I'm trying to establish is, you're actually doing okay. Aside from, you're missing your right arm. And by right arm, it's mostly your forearm, it kind of just kind of stops at the elbow, and you're really thoroughly bandaged up on that arm. The bleeding has come to a stop. Things have calmed down in the past, in the twenty minutes that have passed.


Travis: And just to be clear, when last we left, [Griffin: Yeah.] Merle had explained to us that he heard a British guy, [Griffin: Yeah.] who tricked him, [Griffin: Yes.] and then Lucas, if I remember correctly, said, "I'll explain everything."


Griffin: Yeah, Lucas right now is actually in the corner, he's actually removed a panel from the wall of this medbay and you can see he's got some sort of like, hastily constructed terminal that he's like, rewiring some stuff in the panels, and he's like, fiddling with this terminal, and as he does, you can hear sort of rumbling and some ambient noises coming from pretty far off in the lab. 


And in this medbay, now that things have calmed down, you've actually got a chance to sort of take in your surroundings. There's some cabinets with medical equipment and medicines, there is some sort of scanning device, and there is a null suit chamber, much like the one that you guys had in the Bureau of Balance, it's maybe a little bit smaller than the one that you have in your lab that you used to suit up at the beginning of this adventure, and hanging off of the side of it are— is a suit, that is Lucas-sized, it is human-shaped. And Lucas stops messing with this panel that he's fiddling with, and he goes,


Lucas: Okay, I've rewired and shut down most of the rest of my lab, it should buy us about an hour and a half to get downstairs and shut this thing down.


Magnus: That should give us about an hour and 29 minutes for you to explain what the holy hell is going on, and one minute to get downstairs.


Lucas: [sigh] There... [sigh] what don't, what don't you already know? Some— There was an accident, and somebody—


Magnus: Oookay, what don't we know? I got a compact, lets me see into some strange world, A. B, there's a voice that keeps talking to us. C, some British guy more or less took Merle's hand. D, what the fuck is happening?


Justin: Oh, ah, he really shifted blame— that, I mean— [crosstalk]


Clint: Yeah, some British guy—


Justin: He's exorcised himself from the story, huh— [crosstalk]


Magnus: Listen, if you— if somebody got stabbed with a sword would you say the sword killed him? No. I was merely the tool that operated on Merle, through this British guy— I was a tool.


Justin: Travis is telling his shield, "I don't know, I never cut his hand off… "


Clint: So this is like, guns don't kill people… 


Griffin: Magnus takes axes, kills arms.


Justin: Got it.


Griffin: He says,


Lucas: Actually, before we get started, Merle, I had an idea. Because we're gonna need your clerical ways as we go deeper, and I was thinking, I had a kind of idea of how I could maybe restore some of your two-handedness? If that makes sense?


Merle: I'm listening. I'm a little grumpy, [Lucas: Okay.] as everybody can understand...


Travis: A little put off.


Lucas: Magnus, I understand that you may have taken a little trophy from Hodge Podge after defeating him. Can I see it?


Magnus: Uhhh gimme a minute to find it. [Travis: Rustle rustle rustle.] Not this one... not this one... not this one... not this one... this? No, not this one... is it this—? No not that one...


Clint: Boy, you are really well-armed. [Griffin laughter]


Magnus: Is it this one?


Lucas: Yeah, that's it.


Griffin: He takes it, and uh—


Justin: God, I was so hoping Griffin would say no.


Griffin: He takes the right arm and he holds it up to Merle, and it's really little. It's like a small, like a doll's arm. Like a toy, like a GI Joe arm. He's like,


Lucas: No, I'm just— I'm just kidding, that would be... that would be ridiculous, it's like a little toy arm. Like if I could somehow plug this into you, how would you control it? That's sci-fi bullshit. Robot arms.


Clint: Today the part of Merle being played by Kristen Wiig.


[crosstalk]


Griffin: Can you imagine? Uh, he actually goes back to that desk where he was messing around with a belt and a petri dish, where he was messing around, and you see him—
 
Magnus: Can I have that arm back please?


Lucas: Well, I need a piece off of it.


Griffin: He unscrews this, like, cap at the end of it, and attaches it to this thing that he's tinkering with. And as he's tinkering with it, Carey comes back into the room, and she says,


Carey: Hey, I'm back! I’ve uh, I got what you asked me to get from Jamie.


Griffin: And she is holding a potted plant with these four wooden shoots, it looks like, coming out of it. And if you'll recall, you saw this very briefly when you went into the bugbear chamber. And Lucas goes,


Lucas: Okay, no, this is the idea. This is going to be great.


Griffin: And he takes that plant and removes it, de-pots it, takes it out, and as he's like taking it out of the pot and shaking the dirt off of its roots, you actually see the plant kind of protest? Like it's like trying to slap his hand away? And he plants it in this petri dish that you can see has some sort of green viscous fluid in it, and he sprays it down with something. He picks it up, and it just kind of looks like this wooden plant is hanging off of this belt. And he creates—


Travis: Feed me, Lucas!


Griffin: He creates some sort of concoction that he walks over to Merle, and he says,


Lucas: Here, drink this. Trust me. Please. This is gonna be so sick. This is— Merle, I know you’ve been burned by people asking you to do stuff that maybe you don’t trust, in the past like 15 minutes, but trust me on this, this is gonna be tight as hell.


Merle: Sure. I’ll do it. Yeah.


Griffin: Your other arm falls off.


Merle: I'm really down, so, yeah, go ahead, kick me while I— I'm vulnerable, I feel very vulnerable right now.


Griffin: Okay, so you're downing this bev…


Clint: Mm! It's like an appletini!


Griffin: It actually tastes more like a carbonated wheatgrass shot. [Justin: Nice.] It doesn't taste especially great. But as you taste it, and as you drink it, you see this wooden— these four wooden shoots hanging off of this belt kind of come to a standstill and start to wrap around each other and tie around each other, and they form what looks like kind of a crude four-fingered arm.


[MUSIC: ???]


Griffin: And Lucas explains, he says,


Lucas: Okay, so biology's not my specialty, but this is definitely gonna work. This is a plant called soulwood, and it's a psychically tuned plant that can resonate with certain people that resonate with them, and it can sort of change its biology based on the whims of other living creatures. And Merle, from what I understand, plants are kind of your specialty, um, so—


Magnus: Romantically.


Lucas: Romantically speaking. So, my thinking is— do you mind? I'm gonna get close, I'm gonna get intimate.


Justin: Hell yes, ASMR.


Griffin: He starts whispering in nerd ASMR.


Lucas: [low nasal whispering] Okay, so what it's gonna do… 


Griffin: He takes this belt and wraps it around your shoulder, and then there's another fastener which goes around your chest, and as he's doing this—


Magnus: Merle, how do you feel about auto-erotic asphyxiation?


[laughter]


Griffin: And as he's doing this, he is straight up, like, Army of Darkness, attaching this wooden arm to you that is now roughly the size— it's actually kind of bigger than your other arm—


Travis: I chop it off.


Griffin: Oh no. That didn't last very long at all, huh.


Travis: No, I don't. Not this time.


Griffin: Yeah, you have this wooden arm, and you feel this like, this psychic link with it. You feel like a deep connection with this arm made up of these four wooden shoots that have twisted around each other to form the shape of an arm.


Clint: Awesome...?


Travis: So I guess it all worked out!


Clint: Yeah, everything worked out for the best!


Justin: Worked out fine.


Clint: I want you to feel completely off the hook, Magnus.


Travis: And then Magnus and Merle engage in a very complicated like high five secret handshake so he can test out the hand, we do the Shimmy Shimmy Cocoa Pop, the Bureau handshake—


Griffin: Yeah, as you do the secret Merle and Magnus handshake, Merle, you feel like it is not a big deal to move this thing at all. It takes maybe a little bit to become as dextrous with it as you were your original OG dwarf hand, but yeah, you have pretty good control over this soulwood arm. And it actually like kind of curls up towards you and gives you a big thumbs-up as if to say, hey! I'm your arm now!


Clint: Wow! Creepy! Really creepy! Yeah! Good. That's really gonna cut back on my fireworks—


Travis: I want it in the canon—


Justin: And hey, good news, now you got somebody to blame for your rolls. [Travis laughs] It's the tree!


Travis: I want it in the canon that Magnus is actually like a little bit jealous of his sweet new wooden arm. Not out loud, mind you, but just quietly to himself.


Clint: And I would like it in canon that Magnus can kiss my Kenny Chesney tattoo.


Travis: Fair. All of this is fair.


Justin: Can you imagine what delectable torture that would be though, for Magnus, to have a tree on his arm that he cannot split.


Griffin: Yeah, true… 


Clint: Well, he can.


Travis: Can Magnus make a tree even he can’t split?


Griffin: So in terms of mechanics, Merle, you now have just a permanent disadvantage on sleight of hand rolls. That's just— your days of having good sleight of hand rolls are behind you.


Clint: My days of having any good rolls are behind me!


Griffin: But! You can now control this hand separately from yourself. You can take it off, chuck it, control it like you would normally, [Travis: What?!] like your hand, only you can control it remotely.


Travis: Awesome.


Justin: So it gave him superpowers, basically. Great.


Travis: More so than the magic he could already wield, you know, summoning angels and all that.


Griffin: Magnus cuts both his legs off. Like, all right! Juice me up!


Travis: What've you got for me?!


Justin: Taako cuts his head off.


[snickering]


Griffin: Lucas says,


Lucas: Okay, so we don't have a lot of time for you to get acclimated to your new arm, so you're gonna have to figure it out on the fly, but before we get out there, you're gonna need to recharge your suits.


Griffin: And Noelle says,


Noelle: Oh! That's right! Oh gosh! Sorry, I completely blanked.


And a little compartment opens up and a tank pops out that looks very much like the tank of spray that they plugged into the chamber when you first got sprayed down to null-suit yourselves. And Lucas slips into his null suit and plugs the tank into the chamber, and he's like,


Lucas: Alright, everybody, pile on in! It's time to recharge!


Griffin: And I guess very awkwardly, because there's more of you now, you're doing like a Real World/Road Rules like, how many co-eds can we fit into a phone booth challenge... you all get coated in another layer of null-suit juice. The meters, you have these little panels on your wrist that are showing how much energy you have left in your null suits, are completely full up now. And everybody gets all sprayed down.


Clint: And may I say, in Amazon reviews, I'm giving the null suits originally one thumbs down… 


Griffin: [laughs] That's not how Amazon reviews work.


Clint: I couldn't pass up a thumb joke.


Griffin: Oh, that's— good point. We're gonna have a lot of those now, I bet.


Magnus: Hey Lucas, while we're all showering together…


Lucas: Yeah?


Clint: "What is that?" [crosstalk]


Magnus: When Merle—


Lucas: You're standing on my thigh, which is weird.


Magnus: Thank you for the boost. When Merle mentioned a British guy, did that ring any bells for you?


Lucas: Okay. I swear, guys? The lying stuff? Is over now. I have no fucking idea what—


Magnus: But you realize that like this is an all-audio medium, so all I can do is ask questions, right? I can't look around and observe… 


Lucas: No, I get it. Um, if you want, I can tell you all about the compact… 


Magnus: Yeah! That'd be cool!


Lucas: It'll be easier if I show you the Cosmoscope. Can you guys— are you guys ready to roll?


Magnus: Yeah.


Justin: Uh... [clears throat]


Taako: [voice strained and breaking] Yeah.


Merle: Yeah... still in a lot of pain, but okay.


Taako: [voice breaking a lot] Let's do it.


Griffin: Justin, I wanna hear your—


Justin: The role of Taako today will be played by a ghost.


Griffin: The Cold and Flu version of Taako should be interesting.


Justin: Yeah. Taako silently nods in agreement.


Griffin: You guys make your way out of the med bay and through the decontamination chamber back into the central hub. This room is kind of a mess because the crystal golem started to form in here and kind of fucked shit up, as he was like breaking pieces of crystal off. And you make your way into the door that you saw earlier that was labeled 'The Cosmoscope.' And as you pass through the airlock into the Cosmoscope you enter into what you assume to be a pretty large chamber, although it is like, completely pitch black in here. Save for a pillar of light which is illuminating what looks like a circular disk that is kind of free-floating in the middle of the room, facing you. And uh, Lucas walks into the back of the room, into the darkness. You see him get out a flashlight and you can see he's messing with some sort of lectern back there… 


Travis: Time for scary stories!


Griffin: He says,


Lucas: This is the tale of the... [stalling] old... sailor's... mummy!


[laughter]


Griffin: No, he flips some switches on this lectern and you see an image pop up on this disk, and it looks like the lab that you are currently standing in, as seen from above, from outside of the lab. And he says,


Lucas: Okay, I’m about to get into some pretty heavy concepts. Um, I’m probably going to blow your whole mind and just kinda reshape the way you think about existence and stuff. So if it ever gets to be too much or you have any questions, please feel free to stop me, okay?


Magnus: Okay wait stop: you’re blowing my mind.


Lucas: Okay. Boy, this is gonna take forever, I bet. Let’s take this slow. My whole life, I have been obsessed with the concepts of taxonomy and hierarchy. That, for everything that exists, there’s always a bigger thing that contains it.


Magnus: There’s always someone cooler than you, right?


Lucas: That’s one way of putting it, yeah. So there’s always a bigger thing that has a bigger thing that contains it, and so on and so forth, repeated on to just inconceivable degrees.


Magnus: Turtles all the way down.


Lucas: Turtles all the way down. Turtles all the way up. Bigger turtles. So…


Griffin: And he points to this disk in the middle of the room, and he says:


Lucas: Okay, so this is my lab. We can go way deeper on, like, the micro scale. To, like, elementary particles and stuff like that. But for the lightweight version of this demonstration, let’s start here. Here’s my lab.


Travis: Got it.


Griffin: And he holds up two index fingers, and does, like, an iPhone pinch-- pinches them together, and the image pans out. You see it zoom out, and now you can see the Stillwater Sea underneath his lab.


Lucas: Okay so here it is floating over the Stillwater Sea --


Griffin: And he pinches the screen again.


Lucas: And here’s that sea in relation to the neighboring landmasses, and here’s the whole continent, Faerûn. And here’s our whole world, Abeir-Toril.


Magnus: How’d you do that?


Lucas: Just bear with me. You’re gonna go way way further. [Magnus: What?] Here’s our solar system. [Magnus: Huh??] Here’s the local interstellar cloud, [Magnus: What?!] the local bubble, the local arm, the galaxy…


Griffin: And as he’s doing this, you’re seeing the entire galaxy, spiraling. And it’s beautiful. You’ve never seen anything quite like it.


Lucas: And here’s the local group -- [Magnus: I’ve seen it.] ...Oh. [Laughs] Okay. I wanna actually ask you guys about that here in a minute, but here’s the local group, the local cluster, the local supercluster, and so on and so forth, until… Here!


Travis: It’s all just a collar on a cat! 


Griffin: Uh, it’s- [laughs] yeah. He says,


Lucas: This is the... observable universe. This is every- everything we know, everything- every place we’ve ever been, every person we’ve ever met, every- every place anyone’s ever been, uh, is in here. But- but more importantly so are the immutable rules that govern the people, places, and things inside of this universe. Things like: gravity, thermodynamics, and arcane interactions. And all that stuff, all that matter and energy and the rules that govern it comprise this: our universe. You- you guys are just a handful of people who have ever seen the observable universe before, so… It’s pretty cool, right?


Taako: [low and raspy voice] Way into it.


Merle: Yeah.


Magnus: Yeah, is there, like, a guest book we need to sign or-


Taako: Hey, listen. Hey, uh, listen. What if- 


Travis: [Like imitating bill cosby] Jo-zabba-zoo


Clint: [starts humming a tune]


Taako: Listen, what if I was to take one step past what you’ve shown me here?


Lucas: Taako, can I say something?


[Someone snorts, Clint probably]


Taako: What’s up?


Lucas: You have just made me… very, very happy.


Griffin: And he walks to the back of the room.


Justin: And, also, just to clarify, horny, right?


[Clint wheezes, Travis laughs, crosstalk]


Justin: And, also, you have a deep desire -- [Clint: It all ties together!] to give me a lot of money.


Lucas: You’ve made me very horny.


Griffin: He says. And he flips a switch on that lectern -- [Justin: Yeah, flip it!] and the whole room lights up. And the disk on the middle- you can see- uh, that- that you were just looking at is made of this dark blueish-green material in a perfect circle with some silvery trim, um, all around it. Uh, that -- And- and this disk is levitating. But, you realize as the lights go up, that this room… is filled with these disks and they’re all arrayed in- in- in orbit around this central disk, in- in rings, uh, around it, and there’s ten other, uh, of these disks in the room and they’re all these different colors: bright reds and oranges and greens and blues and whites. And they’re all displaying a wide array of scenes of impossible things. You look into this, this red disk -- 


Travis: Like what?!


Griffin: Well, you see like a world that looks kind of like the world if the world was made completely out of lava and fire and then, there’s a blue disk where it’s just, uh, uh, a giant ocean, a world made of water and ice. Um, you see a world where millions and millions of these living lights float weightlessly through the air and worlds where oceans of magical energy wash up on shores made of these brilliant white sands. You see --


Justin: That- that’s- there’s a name for that one. It’s Ibiza (using spain spanish pronunciation: ee-bee-tha).


Griffin: [laughs] You see --


Travis: You see a world where everything’s the same, except everyone’s got mustaches.


Griffin: You see -- Well, no, that’s not one of them. But you see all of these incredible worlds and you don’t know where to look, and Lucas says-


Justin: Uh, I would. I would look at Buffet Planet back there, couple planets back.


Griffin: [laughs] Uh, Lucas says:


Lucas: Taako, to answer your question, this is the next thing that’s bigger. This is our planar system. This, this, this disk, that you see, that represents our observable universe, this is actually our plane. This is the prime material plane. We’re smack-dab in the middle of the planar universe. And each of these are different planes of existence, and they, they each produce unique energies and they share these energies. They inform the material and physical makeup of, of, of each other. Some connections -- They each have connections, some are more tenuous than others. But these make up the real existence, uh -- each plane having its own sort of energies and rules. This, this is what’s bigger than the universe.


Magnus: Okay.


Merle: And then what’s bigger than that?


Travis: Good question.


Clint: Thank you.


Lucas: Well, let’s start with this: There are six building block planes, right?


Griffin: And these, he points to these disks that are on the outermost ring away from the prime material plane disk that’s in the middle of the room. And he goes:


Lucas: So you’ve got your elemental planes: Fire, air, water, earth. And then you got the planes of light and shadow. [Magnus: Heart?] No. Taako, certainly, you probably know a little bit about these during your studies at Wizard U.


Taako: [low and raspy voice] Yeah, I’ve gotten balls-deep in some of those other planes.


Magnus: I think he’s got a secret room in one of ‘em.


Taako: When I use Blink, I get all up in those other planes.


Lucas: Yeah, that’s right. When you use Blink, you end up in the ethereal plane.


Taako: You didn’t list that amongst your planes.


Lucas: Well, there’s more. I’m gonna run through them. But if you actually look --


Griffin: You can actually see underneath the disk that you were looking at first, where you’re looking at your own universe, you actually see another disk underneath it. And he’s like:


Lucas: That one is the ethereal plane, and it’s kind of like a filter. It’s like where the raw energies of the rest of the planes are kinda filtered into the prime material plane so it’s not just like, everything’s on fire or drowning all the time. So yeah, anyway, that’s the seventh, and then we got the planes that sort of inform the energies of life itself, like the plane of magic where magic energy is born. And then on the opposite end of that, you see there’s the plane of thought which is the source of logic and reason and emotion.


Travis: So, the boring one.


Griffin: Well, as you actually look into the plane of thought, which is this deep green emerald mirror, you see similar scenes to the things that you saw in the compact, Magnus. You see a large, wide, gray road with a bunch of vehicles just sort of sitting stuck on it.


Magnus: Metal dragons!


Griffin: Yeah! You see scenes like you saw in the compact.


Travis: So this plane is where all the creativity and energy for this world comes from. The creation.


Lucas: Yeah! It’s like where the home of logical thought is. That’s why I call it the plane of thought.


Magnus: Show me Donald Trump!


Lucas: I don’t... know quite who that is. Although, the fact that you guys make so many references to this world makes me think you have to have spent some time there at some point.


Magnus: I have a little house there.


Lucas: I can’t tell if you’re joking, which is like, kinda par for the course. Anyway, there’s the other higher planes, there’s the celestial plane, which is inhabited by the beings that I guess some people would consider deities.


Clint: There’s the meat plane, the vegetable plane, the dairy plane, the breads plane…


Justin: Soluble fats plane…


Lucas: Yeah, but you only wanna visit that one sometimes!


Travis: The plain plane, that's not very exciting.


Justin: The plane plane, that's just full of planes.


Clint: And the plain plane plane with all these plain planes in the plane.


Travis: Yeah, you gotta be careful with that one.


Lucas: I’ve been working on a new version of the food pyramid, to kinda educate the people of Faerûn, but it’s kinda like a cube? And it’s for people who like to party.


[laughter]


Taako: Uh, hey, listen, I gotta be honest. From me to you, that sounds dope as hell.


Lucas: [continuing from before the comedic tangent] And then the prime material plane, the ethereal plane, you know about those. And then the astral plane, which is where our unconscious forms -- our souls -- retire when we die here in the prime material plane.


Travis: Is Merle’s arm there?


Merle: Wait a minute! Wait a minute! That goes completely against my theology. Is there a Pan plane?


Taako: Please respect his beliefs.


Lucas: Well, Pan probably kicks it in the celestial plane.


Griffin: Actually, as he was talking about the astral plane, you realize he’s talked about 12 different planes but there are only 11 in the room. He says:


Lucas: The astral plane -- so anyway, let me explain. Crystals, certain types of gemstones, if grown into a perfect circle -- they can’t be cut! If you cut it, it doesn’t work. They have to be naturally grown in a perfect circle -- resonate with the different planes of existence. With the twelve planes that form our planar system, right?


Merle: Well, everybody knows that.


Magnus: Yeah, that’s 101.


Lucas: Literally nobody outside this family knows that, until now.


Merle: I knew it.


[crosstalk]


Magnus: We talked about it yesterday. You remember that, Merle?


Lucas: [Frustrated] Yeah, okay, so-


Merle: Yeah, when I wasn’t speaking to you.


Taako: [lower voice] Hey, listen, little man, these guys are just being braggadocious. Don’t let them rattle your chain. Go ahead with what you were saying. I’m loving all this. Lay it down.


Lucas: So, anyway, my great-grandfather found a crystal, just like that. And it was a perfect emerald disk that had just grown like that naturally in nature. And through that, he was able to see into the plane of thought. And using that, we may have gained a little bit of inspiration for our inventions here in the prime material plane. Kind of cheating, I guess, if you wanna call it that.


Magnus: Lucas?


Lucas: Yeah?


Magnus: Is it possible that through tampering and connecting with these planes, that you might have gotten the attention of something that we shouldn’t have?


Lucas: [instantly] Definitely not!


[laughter]


Magnus: That really kinda feels like what’s going on here.


Griffin: Can you guys give me a minute? Sorry. One sec. [beeps, then a slamming noise]


Justin: He’s gotta go write a new story.


Travis: He’s like, “Uh, no no no! Give me twenty minutes!”


Justin: Like when the producers of Lost pretended that it wasn’t about purgatory the whole time.


Clint: It was?


Justin and Travis: It was.


Clint: It was about purgatory? Oh, I thought it was inside like a snowglobe thing and it was, like --


Travis: Here’s the thing, Dad, the tricky thing is even when it wasn’t about purgatory, it was. ‘Cause that’s how purgatory works.


Clint: Ahhh.


Griffin: Hey, I’m back, sorry.


Lucas: So, yeah, my family [sigh], we’ve sort of led the Industrial Revolution in this world for generations now because of that mirror. And so because of that, my mother, Maureen, started to sort of come up with this idea of how we can create other mirrors into other worlds. But it’s really hard to do, you know? Because you can’t, like I said, you can’t cut these gemstones to create these mirrors.


Magnus: Well, if it was easy, everyone would do it, you know what I mean?


Lucas: Exactly! Everybody would have their own extra-planar sort of telescope situation.


Griffin: Killian’s actually getting a little short-tempered about all this. She’s like:


Killian: Can you please, just, like, explain what thi- why you use the grand relic to do all this stuff? Cause these are, I don’t- this is cool and everything-


Magnus: He was trying to grow another mirror for the ethereal plane.
 
Killian: Okay, yeah that's what I assumed I just kinda hoping he'd get to the point a little bit.
 
Magnus: Read between the lines, Killian!
 
Griffin: Uh, he says


Lucas: Okay so,


Merle: So, she's not seeing anybody? [Justin: Nice try.] Your mom is not like, dating or anything, right?
 
Lucas: Yikes, okay no she's-
 
Merle: Maybe Carbon dating?
 
Taako: Is she a plant? That's his thing. He nasty.
  
Lucas: I mean my mother was very, very much a botanist she, she sort of helped-


Justin: Mmhmm.
 
Magnus: Did your mom die, or did she like disappear one day?
 
Lucas: She passed away, unfortunately.
 
Merle: Passed away into another plaaaane??
 
Lucas: Well yeah, into the astral plane, ‘cause that's where you go. Anyway, I- so I was wor- we- I used the Philosopher’s Stone to transmogrify, uh just pools of water into these different mirrors, uh, it took me some experimenting. I had to, to figure out which gemstones corresponded with which planes. Man, I made so many gemstones. And I uh, yeah the result is I created these 12, I unfortunately was working-
 
Griffin: He flicks another switch on the lectern and the disks just start to sort of rotate around the central one, like they're moving like planets in orbit.
 
Lucas:I was trying to get their trajectories right, and I accidentally broke the astral mirror, so I gotta grow a new one of those although-
 
Magnus: Smooth move, Ex-lax!


Lucas: Yeah I very much doubt that you’re gonna let me keep playing around with that Philosopher's Stone, so I guess I'm just gonna have to cut my losses there.
 
Magnus: Well, but then again, I get it when you want the complete set and you don't have it, and you're like one away you know.
 
Lucas: Yeah, exactly. Anyway-
 
Clint: Just like NASCAR plates.
 
Magnus: I’m a collector too, man, I get it.
 
Lucas: This is what I was working on. This is what I was using the Philosopher’s Stone for, is to create the cosmoscope which I could use to see the whole planar system, and, Merle, you asked a very important question earlier that I would also like to circle back to!


Merle: Ah, yes, what was it?
 
Lucas: [sighs] You’ve already forgotten. Of course, that qu—
 
Griffin: He freezes and time kind of [Travis: Well, you son of a-] time kind of freezes. Um and,
 
Travis: You’re in complete control of this world, Griffin! You made that happen! Don’t act like that was out of your control!
 
Griffin: Yeah, time has kind of frozen here. The orbit of these disks has stopped. Um, and Killian, and Carey and Noelle have just kind of stopped, a- and from behind you, you hear a voice ask that question, uh and it asks-


Red Robe: What’s bigger than this?


Travis: Oh, yeah!


Clint: Oh, god, if he’s got a raincoat on, I am not turning around!


[Snorting laugh]


Travis: Oh, like a flasher and his penis!


Clint: [Laughing] Thank you, Travis.


Travis: I just want to make sure that all our listeners, especially the younger ones, really understood what dad was implying.


Griffin: Yeah you know the child- the children who listen to the podcast, [Clint laughing] Daddy!
 
Clint: Of course.
 
Griffin: Children who are going to be very confused the first time they see an onion, like, “I don’t know what these are supposed to be for!”
 
Justin: You shouldn't let your kids listen to this show. Griffin literally named a character King Fu**di** (beeped). And it’s like, where does that even fit in, y’know I don’t even. Well, I know where it fits in, but- listen I didn’t mean it in the way that you thought I meant it.


{38:45 -- A Far Friendlier Robot plays and announcements start, and end at 46:28 with Cosmoscope. But let’s be clear it starts during the ‘King Fu**di**’ joke}
{46:41}


Griffin: I’ll do a recap of what happened before we started talking about dicks. You hear a voice behind you say:
            
Red Robe: What’s bigger than this?


Travis: “I turn around!” No! Magnus turns around! Which one am I?
[Wheezy laugh]


Griffin: Um. As you-


Travis: I’m lost within myself!


Justin: I don’t know, nobody does character voices except me [cross talk] so it’s hard to say.


Magnus: I turn around!


Justin: That’s fucking, that doesn’t make any sense! Why would he say that right now?


Clint: [high pitched voice] I turn around too!


Justin: “I’m turning around. We’re all turning!”


Griffin: Uhm, as you all say that you’re turning around, as you turn around [Justin: Out loud.], out loud, you see, a floating figure in a bright red robe.


Travis: I attack it!


Justin: Yeah, I blast it with magic missile.


Griffin: Okay. Magnus roll your dice.


Travis: Fifteen plus seven, twenty-two!


Griffin: Okay, he’s incorporeal and your axe passes right through him.


Travis: I attack again, I get two attacks per turn. [background laughter] Fourteen plus seven, Twenty-one!


Griffin: Your second attack hits! It’s a crit!


Travis: What!


Griffin: No, it doesn’t, [Travis: Fuck] he’s incorporeal, it passes right through him. Uh, and Taako,


Travis: But does he seem miffed?


Griffin: Uh-nope! Taako, you’re magic missiling him?


Justin: No, I, well I mean, it depends, did I know he was incorporeal before, or did I watch him, Travis, attack first? If I watch Magnus attack first, I probably didn’t blast it with Magic Missile.


Griffin: Okay, uh then-


Travis: I step- Magnus steps into the place that he is, and kind of blends in with him and goes


Magnus: Oh, Ho Ho, I’m in a red robe!


Griffin: He phases, he phases-


Justin: Okay, now I do use magic missile.


Griffin: He uh, he phases sort of upwards so he’s floating above you.


Red Robe: Okay, excuse me…


Magnus: Uh-huh!


Red Robe: Uh… sup?


Griffin: No, uh-


Travis: A/S/L.
 
Justin: ASMR.


Red Robe: I spoke to you about the hunger of all living things.
 
Magnus: When?
 
Merle: Well, when was that?
 
Griffin: The last time he fucking saw you. Remember a thing! Remember-
 
Travis: No that was in character, Griffin. That was Magnus.


Griffin: Oh.


Red Robe: The last, when - in the office building.


Magnus: In the-? Oh. Oh! With Bane Bane. With Captain Captain Bane.


Red Robe: Yeah, he tried to poison you. But I st-


Magnus: He tried to poison us!?


Red Robe: Okay, so a lot of things went unnoticed.


Merle: I’m not remembering, that one is by me.


Red Robe: Well, take it on credit. I warned you about the hunger of all living things.


Magnus: Mmhmm.


Griffin: He motions to all the different planes, and he says:


Red Robe: This is the power it seeks. The power of creation itself.


Magnus: Got it.


Red Robe: A billion billion lives have been devoured by this hunger in pursuit of its power.


Magnus: A billion billion?


Red Robe: Yes.


Magnus: That’s a lot!


Red Robe: It sure is.


Griffin: He waves a hand and uh, there is a crate sort of in the back of the room by the lectern. It actually kind of looks like a, kind of like a trash bin? And as he motions towards it, it tips over and some small gemstone disks crash out of it. One of them, you can see, is a very dark disk kind of like black. But you can see definitely like flecks of red and green and blue color in this black disk. This disk, this disk begins to shake and this horrifying black cloud sort of emerges out of it and it slowly creeps towards these disks that are floating in the room, and one by one, just consumes them. As each disk is consumed you hear like, screaming voices coming from it.


Travis: Woah, hey.


Griffin: It is an absolutely terrifying scene. It consumes the prime material plane, and you feel kind of sick watching it. After it has consumed all of them, this red robed figure snaps his fingers [snaps] and the cloud disappears. This vision kind of leaves you. And he says-


Red Robe: There is no more running, there is no escape. This world is life’s last chance.


Magnus: Who are you?
 
Red Robe: It's not time for me to tell you that yet.
 
Magnus: What time will you tell me?
 
Red Robe: In like, ten episodes.
 
Magnus: Okay, I'll put it in my calendar.
 
Griffin: He says, uh


Red Robe: You three are the on– Taako? Taako, where did you find that umbrella?
 
Taako: Yeah, I took it off this uhh, I took it off this dead thug with a red robe. This dead guy, he had a red robe.


Red Robe: [breathless panic] You f- you, you-


Magnus: He was totes dead!


Taako: He was dead though I didn’t [cross talk]


Merle: You just killed-Did we kill him or?


Taako: No.


Merle: No. Okay, we would have!


Magnus: He was long dead.


Taako: No problem, no problem here.
 
Griffin: This, this, he’s starting to shudder. There’s red electricity kind of crackling through him. He says-


Red Robe: Wha- What? Where di-? What did you? You found her?  


Travis: I’m gonna step a little bit away from Taako.


Merle: It was a lady?
 
Griffin: As he shouts that he bursts into flames and disappears.


Justin: Dag.


Clint: Wow.


Griffin: And the lights turn back on and Lucas says-


Lucas: —What’s bigger than this?
 
Travis: And we turn around and he’s got his penis out!
 
Taako: Listen, we've been through a few things just now, time— it doesn't matter, go ahead with your little presentation. I think we're all getting a big kick out of it. [Griffin: Um] Hey, by the way, I meant to tell you, this is a great PowerPoint.
 
Lucas: Thanks!
 
Taako: A lot of people forget to give props for PowerPoints [crosstalk]


Lucas: Thanks!
 
Magnus: It’s not as easy as it looks.
 
Lucas: Thanks, I-
 
Taako: It’s not as easy as it looks. There’s a lot of aesthetic issue-
 
Magnus: I like the fonts!
 
Lucas: I worked really hard on it. There’s some good clipart. Like free, fair-use clipart.
 
Travis: Hey it’s me Clippy! I see you’re trying to explain the “Planar system.” Might I recommend: comic sans?


Griffin: Noelle, uh Noelle has her little satellite dish scanner thing out. And its- it’s glowing green. And she says-


Noelle: Well, that’s weird,


Travis: ‘I sense green.’


Noelle: I had my scanner on before, from before when I scanned that crystal monster. It’s uh, I’m picking up- it says it’s. One of you guys isn’t a lich are you?


Magnus: A what?


Noelle: A lich.


Magnus: I’m not! 
 
Taako: No, not to my knowledge.


Merle: No, but, but -  I have a couple of liches that are friends.


Magnus: Yeah, oh yeah, I got lich friends.


Merle: They’re cool, they’re really - they’re good, good people.


Noelle:I guess my scanner is on the blitz. On the fritz, I’ll have ta’-


Magnus: You’re sensing a lich?


Noelle: Yeah, I’ve picked up on a lich being in the room.


Merle/Magnus: A lich? [cross talk]


Magnus: Like a lich,


Merle: Like a lecher? I don’t-


Magnus: A lich is like, uh, an undead, like uh-


Griffin: You could make an arcana check, and I can tell you exactly what a lich is.


Travis: Alright, yeah, rolling. I forgot about that. Okay, that’s not gonna do it. That’s a four plus zero: four.


Griffin: Yeah, uh, you have -


Clint: Alright, I’ll make one. With my plant arm. Fifteen!


Justin: Nice.


Griffin:  Yeah, uh Merle, between your sort of backgrounds in, uh, religion and arcana, you know that a lich is sort of this embodiment of a, a very powerful magic user, who uh, sort of uh, combines their essence, like life energy with their magical energy, and sort of transcends their physical form. Technically, it’s like an undead- Imagine a ghost made of magic. But, that uh, a magic user has to willfully do that. Although-


Clint: Like David Blaine!


Griffin: Kind of, yeah. Except what’s interesting is, is that most liches, when a magic user does this, it’s like way too ambitious a thing, and they can’t really control that energy. Most liches are just like, insane. Like they have no control over themselves. They’re just hyper, hyper-violent, hyper-evil embodiments of like, raw magical energy. They are not usually well-spoken beings. Lucas also says-


Lucas: Well that’s weird, did one of you knock over my rubbish bin? I had some things here I was uh, these were some mirrors that, like, didn’t end up being anything. Um. Did one of you guys, like, come over and kick this over? [crosstalk]


Magnus: No, That does sound like us but, no… 


Merle: No! Uh-uh!


Taako: Sounds like something we would do if we thought something-


Merle: You know, when we’re staying at somebody’s place we take really good care of them. So I don’t- Mm-uh, Not us!


Justin: This is going to be my final plea, for everybody on the show, to use character voices. I would do anything. To make it, more sonically pleasurable for the listeners.


Clint: Let me try, try it again.


Merle: [Gruffer] No wasn’t me! No! I didn’t do it. Ah-nope! We’re very careful about this.


Travis: [Exaggerated] It was me~!


Justin: I’m not gonna play with you, little kid.


Griffin: You guys could, like, essentially swap right now if you wanted to.


Justin: Oh that’s easy. I’ll just talk like I always talk, cause I don’t, that means I don’t have to do character voices like you guys, [Griffin laughing] or dad, ever.


Griffin: The mirror on the floor that you actually, the black mirror, that you saw that black cloud come out of. From where you’re standing, fairly far away, you actually see some like, faint, white moving shapes in it.


Travis: I get closer to it.


Griffin: Okay. Standing over it you can actually see what look like white eyes looking back at you through this, black mirror. And as they sort of make eye contact with you, these eyes quickly shut, and disappear.


Travis: I pick it up. [Griffin: ‘kay.]


Magnus: Can I-hey Lucas,


Lucas: Yeah, what’s up?


Magnus: Can I, uhhhh, have this?


Lucas: Yeah I don’t know, yeah I mean I guess it’s kind of valu- I mean it’s ethically unsound. You’re not gonna like, [Magnus: Lucas.] you’re not gonna sell it right?


Magnus: (high pitched) Nnnnnnnno.


Lucas: So that’s made of, lemme see. That’s one made of black opal. Which is, I mean, it’s inert, it doesn’t resonate with any planes. But, yeah, I guess if you want to keep it, you can hold onto that if you want.


Magnus: I do!


Clint: And I chop his arm off!


Griffin: That’s just gonna be, when you least expect it!


Clint: Well you know, I don’t want his arm to turn into a black disk with little white flecks inside it.


Travis: No, it’s cool, it’s cool. Nothing is happening.


Griffin: No it’s not, it’s not uh- all these things, all these crystals an’ stuff aren’t spreading around. This room is not, also I should have mentioned earlier, it’s not crystallized with the pink tourmaline. He says uh-


Lucas: Okay, anyway, yeah. That’s what I’ve been up to. So uh, let’s uh- let’s-


Magnus: The spirit, the spirit – uh, sorry Lucas, real quick, one second. The spirit that we encountered talked about seeing beyond the plane [crosstalk]?


Lucas: The what that you what?


Magnus: What?


Merle: Oh, nice one. Good one! Smooth!


Magnus: Yeah there was a thing-yeah, because we know so much. There was a spirit, a thing! That like inhabited golems that we’ve been fighting and that kind of stuff, that sang to us about seeing beyond the plane, and their crystal kingdom? And it really feels like this planar stuff, might have something to do with that.


Lucas: Was it-?


Merle: [Gruffer] We’re sorry we didn’t tell you before, Lucas.


Travis: Are you Richard Nixon?


Clint: Was that okay? Was that good?


Griffin: Yeah it’s fun. I’m gonna- 


Justin: You can't just do any voice.


Clint: You just told me to do a character voice! 


Justin: It's not Rich Little plays Dungeons and Dragons.


Clint: Well, mommy, uh-


Justin: We don’t want a fucking tour of American history, just do one character voice. Just do it! 


Clint [indignant]: Well, you're doing a different character voice! Your Barry White voice.


Justin: Because my throat hurts and again, that's two to your zero voices.


Travis: Well, you're using up all the character voices. 


[Clint laughs] 


Griffin: Uh, he says, he do not, he has no idea what 
you’re talking about.


         Lucas: What songs? What are you talking about? 


[58:55] Magnus: It goes like [singing, high pitched] Here in my crystal kingdom. There [Clint joins in] is a castle on a cloud.


Justin: [wheezing laughter]


Griffin: I have been accused-


Magnus: [singing] I like to go there in my dreams, here in my crystal kingdom.


Travis: That was Magnus singing, in-character voice.


Griffin: Yeah, I mean the song is basically a mash up of that and the Forest music from the Super Mario RPG. I've realized now in post.


Travis: Perfect.


Lucas: We should probably get a move on, because I think we're down to about fifty minutes now and yeah, we should really get scootin'.


Travis: Okay, quick twenty minute nap.


Merle [in a new voice]: Hey man, that'll be groovy. Let's go.


Justin: Let's go, Sammy Davis Junior, as a gnome, as a dwarf.


Travis: Wait, so, am I Jerry Lewis? Hold on, we've got Dean Martin, we've got Sammy Davis Junior.


Justin: I'm out the door so I can't hear this.


Griffin: Okay, so back in the sort of central hub room of this floor, Lucas walks over to the central pillar and it's got one of those like red, hand-lock things on it and he puts his hand on it and it makes a bing-bong noise. And you hear an elevator sort of moving up to come to your level. And he says, uh


Lucas: Okay uh are you guys ready to uh, go down to the lower level? You guys ready to stop this thing?


Magnus: What, what is down there?


Lucas: One of my robots just attacked me, I don't know, I think we can stop them but I-I think-


Magnus: Oh cool, robots, let's do it.


Lucas: Yeah, I believe in the power of our friendship and teamwork that we can all do it!


Merle: Eh, well, maybe.


Taako: Hell yeah.


Griffin: And Carey and Killian actually draw their weapons and they say, or uh, Killian says:


Killian: Lucas, the only place that you're goin’ is the pokey. We've-


Magnus: Wh-timing!


Killian: We've received orders- we have to get- we had to figure out what he was doing- do you not remember?! Our orders? From the Director?


Magnus: No, I do! But you couldn't wait until after he helped us stop the thing?!


Killian: I'm not gonna let him get anywhere near the Philosopher’s Stone. I don't trust this dude as far as I can throw him-


Magnus: So what are you gonna do with him right now?


Killian: I'm gonna take him, we're gonna extract him, and we're gonna fuckin’ lock him in prison probably forever.


Magnus: And you're just gonna leave us here to deal with this shit.


Killian: You guys can handle it, you're Reclaimers, we can't do it! If we get too close to the thing it might end up tempting us, it'll definitely tempt this motherfucker. We're taking this guy to jail!


[Clint and Justin cracking up]


Magnus: [sarcasm] I appreciate less help, thank you so much, Killian.


Griffin: Killian's getting kinda aggro and Carey's trying to sort of-


Carey: Okay, guys, listen. We gotta take him away! We gotta take him out!


Griffin: And Lucas is like:


Lucas: Merle-Merle, Magnus, Taako… come on, help me out. I can help you guys stop this thing.


Magnus: Alright… here's the deal. Killian, Carey: take him back to the lab. Lock yourselves in where we just were. Lock yourselves in. Leave his necklace on him. If he helps us get through this through communication- Lucas, if you help, I will plead your case. I will say that you were cooperative, that you were easily-


Killian: We don't have like, a court. We don't- this guy used a Grand Relic. And he knew not to do that. That's- that's it. This, like-


Justin: Hey, are you saying this out loud or are you saying this like, in character?


Griffin: Yeah, that's Killian's voice, I know it's confusing.


Justin: Okay, okay.


Taako: Hey, uh, well, you know, good plan Magnus, but suddenly she just blew up your spot. Way to play along, Killian, real smooth.


Magnus: Yeah, super cool.


Killian: I don’t tell you- hey, I don't tell you guys how to recover relics, you don't tell me how to regulate!


Magnus: You actually have done that before.


[All three players objecting at once]


Taako: You have said, many times, that is-


Merle: I can remember six times.


Killian: Okay, the first- the first time we met, yes, I explicitly told you how to recover relics, but you weren't on the- on the payroll then. Listen, you guys are good at this. We're good at this.


Griffin: She points at Lucas.


Killian: We're- This is what we're good at, which is getting creeps away from- from destroying the fucking world.


Magnus: You would be locked in a fucking frozen room if we hadn't come along.


Killian: That's prob- We were-


Magnus: So don't sit there and lecture me on how you know how to do your job. We're gonna get through this together, you got it?


Griffin: As you're like arguing with like, Killian, um, you notice that this pool of, it looks like blue? Just like a pool of the colour blue is spreading out of the central elevator in this room. And then very quickly, like a sound wave, it like, roars through the entirety of the room and you feel the lab shake a little bit, and you actually feel this wave of blue ripple underneath your feet. And then suddenly the whole room is blue sapphire.


Travis: Ah-bo-dee-ba-bo-die-ah-bo-dee-ba-bo-die-ba-bo-di


Griffin: And then very quickly before you can finish singing any more of the song, there's another roar and then another wave, and then the room is bright green emerald. And then another wave, and it is just shimmering orange topaz. And the room just keeps like, fluctuating quickly between these different colours and it kind of feels like there's an earthquake happening as the entire lab transmutates between these different gemstones. And with each one, there's, like, another deafening roar. And finally, it all kind of settles on...let's say amethyst.


Justin: What color's that?


Griffin: Purple.


Justin: Amber. Did you mean to say amber?


Griffin: Amber, yeah. It stops on amber. No that's not good. We'll do amethyst.


Clint: That gives a- it makes us look all washed out.


Justin: Yeah.


Travis: What colour is the energy?


Griffin: Uh, I mean the colour, the energy is, the energy is 311's Amber but-


Travis: Okay.


Griffin: So this- as, as this- yeah.


Justin: [purposely interrupting Griffin] Listen, enough of this chin-wagging [laughs].


Griffin: It kinda puts an end to the uh, the argument that you were having.


Magnus: Killian, I’m sorry, I don’t even know what we were arguing about. Fwiends?


Killian: Yeah. So, you’re gonna let us take this guy back and you’re not gonna raise a big—


Magnus: Ah no, that’s what we were arguing about, thank you, I completely forgot.


Lucas: Gang, listen. [Pause] we don't have time for this.


Griffin: And I need all of you guys to make constitution saving throws.


[dice]


Travis: Not great. Yeah. Mine is not great, Ditto.


Clint: Holy!


Travis: I had a four plus three, seven.


Clint: I rolled eighteen plus two is twenty.


Travis: Dammit!


Justin: Nice. One plus dick for me. [Clint laughing]


Griffin: As soon as Lucas says that, you all feel the panels that are built into the wrists of your null suits that Lucas designed, you feel them very quickly heat up and then you feel something very bad as these purple volts of electricity just kind of surround you, emanating from that panel and paralyzing you.


Travis: Ah, dammit!


Griffin: And Taako, you just fall to the floor, you are not moving. You have been completely paralysed as you fall to the floor. Magnus, your like, head is good and your hands are good, but your arms and legs are both paralysed. And Merle, just your legs are paralysed as you fall to the floor. But all of you go down. Carey and Killian go down like a sack of bricks. And right as soon as that happens the elevator doors open, Lucas runs in, and as the doors shut behind him, he says:


Lucas: I am so, so sorry.


Magnus: Well, you know what, you dickhole? Like I was fighting for you, you ass!


Griffin: And he is gone. And Killian says:


Killian: I am going to absolutely murder that man.


Magnus: Yeah...yeah, yeah.


Killian: I am absolutely going to kill him– oh my god I’m gonna kill him so good.


Magnus: … yeah. You and me both, Killian.


Merle: Great, now I can't feel my legs. I'm down to one arm. One freaking arm. Great.


Griffin: Both your arms are actually pretty good. 


Travis: And you can throw one of them off! And still control it! You're the most-


Clint: One of them's a weed!


Taako: [through a stiff jaw] Hey guys... hey guys. [Clint silently losing it] Check it out: oil can... right? Oil can... right? Oil can... like Tin- the Tin Man.


Merle: I think he’s saying oil can! 

Magnus: I thought he was saying [muffled]


Griffin: You hear crinkle-tinkles.


Travis: [gasp] Fuck.


Griffin: They’re coming from the floor, you can tell, now that you’re all on the floor. You can tell that it’s kind of reverberating through the crystal that’s taken over this room. And yeah the crinkle tinkles are building and they’re getting way louder. And you hear the beginning of a song start to play. And then through the very crystal that has encased this room, you hear another verse of the song.


Mystery Voice:
Saved from the darkness by my child
Locked in a cage of glass and steel
But my true love remains in exile
Beckoning me to break the seal
Into this crystal kingdom


Griffin: I'm actually gonna say the lyrics out loud cause I think some folks have trouble understanding vocaloids. Most people like, don't have an ear-


Travis: I don't speak vocaloid.


Griffin: Yeah, they don't have an ear for it. Uh, the voice just sang:
Saved from the darkness by my child,
Locked in a cage of glass and steel.
But my true love remains in exile,
Beckoning me to break the seal,
Into this crystal kingdom.


Clint: Can I ask a question?


Griffin: Yup.


Clint: Is anybody writing this shit down?


Travis: Yeah.


Clint: Okay good.


Travis: I mean, not me, but I assume somebody is.


Clint: Perhaps they could send it to us.


Griffin: And as that verse wraps up, another rift opens in space. Merle, you're probably only person that can really get up to see this happen. And out of that rift, that white fire comes out of it. And those loose pieces of crystal shards that the golem kind of abandoned when it left this room start to self-form again. Merle, you see your arm, your poor, poor crystallised arm sort of float into this mass and come together to form another crystal golem. This one is actually, way more like, slender than the other ones you've seen. It looks like weirdly like bony? Almost like a crystal skeleton with these long, much longer, much sharper looking appendages. And this menacing apparition comes and stands over the five of you all laying paralysed on the ground. And through all of your Stones of Far Speech, you hear a voice say: 


Cockney accent: Well, this is hardly fair.


[End theme music]


[Next Episode]